---
layout: post
title: Yakitori

---
*  1 cup cup soy sauce
* ½ cup water
* 2 tablespoons mirin rice wine
* 2 tablespoons rice vinegar
* ⅔ cup light brown sugar or honey
* 1 teaspoon ginger, minced
* 1 clove garlic, minced
* 1 tablespoon cornstarch
* 2 pounds chicken thighs, boneless, skinless, cut into 1” by 1 ¼” pieces
* 8 bamboo skewers, or metal skewers
* salt
* black pepper
* 2 tablespoons vegetable oil
* 1 tablespoon sesame seeds

### Instructions

* In a medium-size pot whisk together soy sauce, water, mirin, rice vinegar, sugar, ginger, garlic, and cornstarch.
* Bring mixture to a boil, constantly whisk until sauce is slightly thickened, about 1 minute.
* Transfer 1 cup of the sauce to a bowl to use for basting the chicken.
* Thread cut pieces of chicken on wooden skewers that have been soaked in water for 30 minutes. Season with salt and pepper on both sides.
* Drizzle both sides of skewers with a small amount of oil to prevent sticking when cooking.
* Preheat grill over medium-high heat. Use a paper towel dipped in oil to clean and grease the grill grates.
* Once the grill is hot add the skewers and cook for 4 minutes. Flip over and baste the cooked side with the sauce. Cook 4 minutes.
* Flip skewer over, baste with sauce, cook 2 minutes covered.
* Flip skewer over again, baste, cook 2 minutes covered.
* Repeat flipping, basting and covered cooking 2 additional times, 16 minutes total cooking time.
* Sprinkle chicken yakitori skewers with sesame seeds. Serve immediately with additional sauce.